# The evolutionary architect

## Inaccurate comparisons

.. rant about engineers in our field ..

## An evolutionary vision for the Architect

Requirements, tools, techinques shift more rapidly than they do for people who design and build buildings.

Thus, our architects need to shift their thinking away from creating the perfect end product, and instead focus on helping create a framework in which the right systems can emerge, and continue to grow as we learn more.

architects have a duty to ensure that the system is habitable for developers too.

## Zoning

An architect rather than specifying the different services, he ensures that the service boundaries can talk correctly to each other.

## A principled approach

Trade-offs are at the heart of system design and of microservice architectures. Which datastore do we pick,
how many different technology stacks should we pick at most, etc.

Principles can help us make these decisions easier.

### Strategic Goals

Or business goals. A company runs on profit, so it needs to optimize and innovate to get most out of the business.
The technologies used can be influenced by the company vision, to be able to adapt.

### Principles

Principles are rules that the company has defined in order to make different teams/sections align to the company vision.
One strategic goal of a company could be to reduce the time to market of features, or expand in another part of the world.
See Heroku`s 12 factor app for more info about modern principles on the heroku platform.


### Practices

Practices are technical, detailed guidance on how to perform a task to ensure a principle.

Like coding guidelines, structural architecture patterns, protocols to use for communication, etc..


## The Required Standard

You definitely cannot define a set of standards that is applicable/makes sense across all services.
Some sensible standards can be made to make the different services come together.

### Monitoring

Monitoring is an essentials parts in building microservices and is better when it is consistent across the system.
You may choose to emit health events to a centralized node that handles logs, or each services can be contacted to make sure it is alive.

### Interfaces

Pick a small number of interfaces/protocols to communicate across services.
This is crucial to adopt emerging consumers.

### Architecural safety

You have to ensure that a downstream service does not block the other running services.




## Governance and Leading from the center

An architect has a lot of responsabilities: ensuring the system behaves and follows the teams principles of the development team and
is moving in the direction of the company`s vision. They need to constantly keep in sync with the development team to make sure
the practices are carried on.

This job can be daunting and shouldn`t be done alone: instead the architect should sync with the team and make sure that the decisions
are approved together


### Buiding a team

"Great software comes from great people", building a team isn`t about the technology stack, it`s about making sure that the team can be autonomous
on making decisions and an active part in discussing the technology aspects.

### Summary

The core responsabilies of an evolutionary architect:

Vision: the clear communication to the team of the vision of the system is very important, keeping in mind the functional and business
requirements of the customers and organization

Empathy: the decisions should have a minimal impact on your customers and colleagues

Collaboration: invites others to define, refine and execute the vision

Adaptability: business requirements change, so the technical vision and the system has to adapt

Autonomy: Defining a sensible standard for the system is reccomended, although it is important to ensure autonomy for the teams

Governance: Make sure that the system is implemented following the technical vision


