We will see how to think about the boundaries of your microservices.

## Introducing MusicCorp

MusicCorp is an online retailer. Their business model is a little nit behind the curve,
they believe their users are quite happy to wait for their music CDs at their doorstep,
they bet on quality over convenience.
They want to be able to change their business model quickly, and since they are online,
they are stoked to hear about that microservices thing.


## What makes a Good Service?

Loose coupling and high cohesion. That`s the key.

### Loose coupling

When services are loosely coupled, a change to one service should not require a change to another.
A loosely coupled service knows as little as possible about the collaborating service.

### High cohesion

Cohesion is about the responsability of a service. If the service is confused about its
roles and behaviour, low cohesion is the result. If we want to make a change to a specific
service that handles a responsability, well, we want to do it once, in one place.

We can achieve high cohesion by inspecting our problem domain and clearly define the
boundaries and responsabilities of the services


## The bounded context

In the book DDD, Eric Evans introduces the concept of bounded context.
A domain consists of multiple bounded contexts, within reside the models.
They do not need to communicate externally of their bounded context.

Another definition of *Bounded context* is "a specific responsability enforced by explicit boundaries".
Communication happens through explicit boundaries using models.


### Shared and Hidden Models

In our domain of MusicCorp, two separate bounded contexts could be the finance department and the warehouse.

For example the finance department doesn`t need to know about the inner working of the warehouse, and neither
does the warehouse need to know about accountability, etc.

They both have to communicate in some way, through an explicit interface and potentially through a shared
domain model object that represents a thing in the real world.

For example a return in the context of the warehouse could mean an item that is about to arrive, and needs to be
put in a restock queue. A return in the context of a customer it might mean to print the shipping label, send 
the item back and wait for a refund.


## Modules and Services

By sharing a model without sharing information of another bounded context, we can avoid a common
pitfalls, that is tight coupling.

We have identified bounded contextx where like-minded domain models live, giving us high cohesion.











